docs: tw579-create-a-token-quickstart (#2892)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: docs/build-decentralized-apps/quickstart-create-a-token.mdx

---
title: 'Create a token using Foundry (Quickstart)'
description: This quickstart walks you through the process of how to setup the Foundry environment, and create a token on Arbitrum.
author: pete-vielhaber
user_story: As a developer, I want to understand how to launch a token, and what considerations to take along the way.
content_type: quickstart
displayed_sidebar: buildAppsSidebar
---

Deploying an `ERC-20` token on Arbitrum One is fully permissionless and uses the same tooling and workflows as Ethereum.

> Projects can deploy directly to Arbitrum One using Foundry, and optionally configure bridging, liquidity, and supporting smart-contract infrastructure as part of their launch.

Reviewer: **Line 12 - Hyphenated "smart-contract" and third-person voice**

Line 12 - Hyphenated "smart-contract" and third-person voice

```suggestion
You can deploy directly to Arbitrum One using Foundry, and optionally configure bridging, liquidity, and supporting smart contract infrastructure as part of your launch.
```

This guide walks you through deploying a standard `ERC-20` token on Arbitrum One, from local setup to testnet and mainnet deployment.

## Prerequisites

> 1. **Install Foundry**:

Reviewer: **Line 18 - Sentence case in bold label**

Line 18 - Sentence case in bold label

```suggestion
1. **Install Foundry**:
   ```shell
   curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
   foundryup
   ```
```

   ```bash
   curl -L https://foundry.paradigm.xyz | bash
   foundryup
   ```

> 2. **Get Test `ETH`**: Obtain Arbitrum Sepolia `ETH` from a faucet like Alchemy's Arbitrum Sepolia Faucet, Chainlink's faucet, or QuickNode's faucet. You'll need to connect a wallet (e.g., MetaMask) configured for Arbitrum Sepolia and request testnet funds.

Reviewer: **Line 23 - Latin abbreviation "e.g." and sentence case in bold label**

Line 23 - Latin abbreviation "e.g." and sentence case in bold label

```suggestion
2. **Get test `ETH`**: Obtain Arbitrum Sepolia `ETH` from a faucet like Alchemy's Arbitrum Sepolia Faucet, Chainlink's faucet, or QuickNode's faucet. You'll need to connect a wallet (for example, MetaMask) configured for Arbitrum Sepolia and request testnet funds.
```

:::info Resources

A list of faucets is available on the [Chain Info page](/for-devs/dev-tools-and-resources/chain-info.mdx#faucets).

Faucets may require certain actions, e.g., bridging, use the official Arbitrum Bridge if the faucet requires it.

All references to `ETH` on this document refers to test `ETH` on Sepolia.

:::

> 3. **Set Up Development Environment**: Configure your wallet and tools for Arbitrum testnet deployment. Sign up for an Arbiscan account to get an API key for contract verification.

Reviewer: **Line 35 - Sentence case in bold label**

Line 35 - Sentence case in bold label

```suggestion
3. **Set up development environment**: Configure your wallet and tools for Arbitrum testnet deployment. Sign up for an Arbiscan account to get an API key for contract verification.
```

       function testMinting() public {
           uint256 mintAmount = 1000 * 10**18;

           // Only the owner should be able to mint
           vm.prank(owner);
           token.mint(user, mintAmount);

           assertEq(token.balanceOf(user), mintAmount);
           assertEq(token.totalSupply(), INITIAL_SUPPLY + mintAmount);
       }

       function testBurning() public {
           uint256 burnAmount = 1000 * 10**18;

           // Owner burns their tokens
           vm.prank(owner);
           token.burn(burnAmount);

           assertEq(token.balanceOf(owner), INITIAL_SUPPLY - burnAmount);
           assertEq(token.totalSupply(), INITIAL_SUPPLY - burnAmount);
       }

       function testFailMintExceedsMaxSupply() public {
           // This test should fail when attempting to mint more than the max supply
           uint256 excessiveAmount = token.MAX_SUPPLY() + 1;

           vm.prank(owner);
           token.mint(user, excessiveAmount);
       }

       function testFailUnauthorizedMinting() public {
           // This test should fail when a non-owner tries to mint tokens
           vm.prank(user);
           token.mint(user, 1000 * 10**18);
       }
   }
   ```

> 2. **Run Tests**:

Reviewer: **Line 245 - Sentence case in bold label and code block language tag**

Line 245 - Sentence case in bold label and code block language tag

```suggestion
2. **Run tests**:
   ```shell
   # Runs all tests with verbose output
   forge test -vv
   ```
```

     --verifier etherscan \
     --verifier-url https://api.arbiscan.io/api \
     --chain-id 42161 \
     --num-of-optimizations 200
   ```

## Arbitrum-specific configurations

- **RPC URLs**:
  - Arbitrum Sepolia: `https://sepolia.arbitrum.io/rpc`
  - Arbitrum One: `https://arb1.arbitrum.io/rpc`
- **Chain IDs**: Arbitrum Sepolia: 421614; Arbitrum One: 42161.
- **Contract Addresses**: Logged in console output after deployment (e.g., `console.log("Token deployed to:", address(token));`).
- **Verification**: Uses Arbiscan API with your API key. The `--verify` flag enables automatic verification.

## Important notes

- Always conduct security audits (e.g., via tools like Slither or other professional reviews) before mainnet deployment, as token contracts handle value.
- Ensure your wallet has enough `ETH` for gas on the target network. Arbitrum fees are low, but mainnet deployments still cost real `ETH`.
- If you encounter verification issues, double-check your Arbiscan API key and foundry.toml configs. For more advanced deployments, refer to general Foundry deployment docs or Arbitrum developer resources.

## Bridging considerations

Two deployment paths are possible:

> 1. **Native Deployment** (recommended)

Reviewer: **Line 306 - Sentence case in bold label**

Line 306 - Sentence case in bold label

```suggestion
1. **Native deployment** (recommended)
```

- Token is deployed directly on Arbitrum One
- Ideal for a Token Generation Event (TGE), liquidity bootstrapping, airdrops, and L2-native user flows.

2. **Deployment on Ethereum and bridging to Arbitrum One**

- Use the [Arbitrum Token Bridge](https://bridge.arbitrum.io) to create an L2 counterpart

## Post-deployment considerations

> After deploying a token contract on Arbitrum, you may choose to complete additional setup steps depending on the needs of your project. These may include:

Reviewer: **Line 317 - Conciseness and directness**

Line 317 - Conciseness and directness

```suggestion
After deploying a token contract on Arbitrum, you can complete additional setup steps depending on your project's needs. These may include:
```

     --verifier etherscan \
     --verifier-url https://api.arbiscan.io/api \
     --chain-id 42161 \
     --num-of-optimizations 200
   ```

## Arbitrum-specific configurations

- **RPC URLs**:
  - Arbitrum Sepolia: `https://sepolia.arbitrum.io/rpc`
  - Arbitrum One: `https://arb1.arbitrum.io/rpc`
- **Chain IDs**: Arbitrum Sepolia: 421614; Arbitrum One: 42161.
- **Contract Addresses**: Logged in console output after deployment (e.g., `console.log("Token deployed to:", address(token));`).
- **Verification**: Uses Arbiscan API with your API key. The `--verify` flag enables automatic verification.

## Important notes

- Always conduct security audits (e.g., via tools like Slither or other professional reviews) before mainnet deployment, as token contracts handle value.
- Ensure your wallet has enough `ETH` for gas on the target network. Arbitrum fees are low, but mainnet deployments still cost real `ETH`.
- If you encounter verification issues, double-check your Arbiscan API key and foundry.toml configs. For more advanced deployments, refer to general Foundry deployment docs or Arbitrum developer resources.

## Bridging considerations

Two deployment paths are possible:

> 1. **Native deployment** (recommended)

Author: ```suggestion
1. **Native deployment**
```

- Token is deployed directly on Arbitrum One

> - Ideal for a Token Generation Event (TGE), liquidity bootstrapping, airdrops, and L2-native user flows.

Author: ```suggestion
- Use cases: Token Generation Event (TGE), liquidity bootstrapping, airdrops, and L2-native user flows.
```
